----------- Polyfills ------------


A polyfill is code that implements a feature of the development environment that does not natively support the feature.

What if we require a function xyz and our dev env doesn't support it, and we want to write our own xyz function, we can create our own implementation of it

 - returning a function
 - how the args are being passed
 - how do we handle the args
 - how the refernces are being passed
 - how are we concatenating the args


----------- Polyfills ------------


--------------- CALL BACKS --------------

A callback function is a function passed into another function as an argument, which is then invoked inside the outer function to complete some kind of routine or action.

There are two ways in which the callback may be called: synchronous and asynchronous. Synchronous callbacks are called immediately after the invocation of the outer function, with no intervening asynchronous tasks, while asynchronous callbacks are called at some point later, after an asynchronous operation has completed.

Issues: 
        1. Callback Hell
        2. Inversion of control

        Using callbacks is a powerful way to perform async tasks in JS.

        console.log("HellO!");

        setTimeout(function (){
            console.log("Yash")
        }, 5000)

        console.log("What is your name?")

        We can just take a peice of code and pass it to a function to be executed at a later point of time



    When we have a large code base, and there are so many apis dependent on each other one after the other, so what happens is we end up falling into call back hell.
    One callback inside another callback inside another call back or some api / if statements, random things like this leads to call back hell

    Because of this our code starts growing horizontally and not vertically

    This type of code structure is unmaintainable.

    Callback hell is also known as PYRAMID OF DOOM

    // In this scenario first the order is to be created and then proceeded to payment, so here call backs come into picture

    const cart = ["Shoes","Pants","Kurta"];

    // proceedToPayment has dependancy on createOrder, showOrderSummary has dependancy on proceedToPayment
    // To manage these dependencies, callbacks come in handy

    // api.createOrder(cart, 
    //     function (){
    //         api.proceedToPayment(function (){
    //             api.showOrderSummary(function (){
    //                 api.updateWallet();
    //             });
    //         });
    //     });

    // Problem - Callback hell


    Inversion of control occurs when, we loose the control of our code when we are using callbacks

    We blindly gave control to createOrder API, now it is the responsibility of createOrder API to call our function back
    Here we don't know if the control would return  back to this function or not, there could be some bugs in that API
    It may lead to a scenario where our proceedToPayment function is never called

    api.createOrder(cart, 
        function (){
            api.proceedToPayment();
        });


    When we have a callback function and we pass it to some other function, we are giving the control of our code to some other code 
    ANd we don't know what is happening in the function now.

    These are somethings which need to be taken care of

    When we nest callbacks like this, it can also get very hard to handle errors: often you have to handle errors at each level of the "pyramid", instead of having error handling only once at the top level.

    For these reasons, most modern asynchronous APIs don't use callbacks. Instead, the foundation of asynchronous programming in JavaScript is the Promise, and that's the subject of the next article.

--------------- CALL BACKS --------------