------------------- THE SCOPE CHAIN ----------------------


Scope in JS is directly related to Lexical Environment.

function a(){
    console.log(b);
}

var b = 10;
a();

// Output - 10

In the above code snippet when this is ran, JS Engine will try to find the value of var b in the local memory space of function a, i.e. the Execution Context of a, (EC A), it won't be there since we never created var b in the function a.

In this case it prints 10, the variable b --> console.log(b), is able to access the memory of the global execution context where the actual value of b is present.

function a(){
    c();
    function c(){
        console.log(b)
    }
}

var b = 10;
a();


// Output -> 10


In this scenario when there is a function inside a function, the global variable b is being able to access inside the function


function a(){
    var b = 10;
    c();
    function c(){
        console.log(b)
    }
}


a();


// 10

In this scenario when the var b is defined inside the function a, it is still accessible by the function c

function a(){
    var b = 10;
    c();
    function c(){
        
    }
}


a();
console.log(b)

// reference error: not defined

But when the definition of b is inside the function a, and the variable b is called globally in this scenario it gives an error as not defined. 

Here comes the scope into picture

Scope -> where you can access a function or a variable in the code 
     1 -> What is the scope of variable b
     2 -> Is b inside the scope of function c (Can b be accessed in the function c)


What is Lexical environment?

Whenever an Execution Context is created a Lexical Environment is also created.
Lexical Environment is the local memory, along with the lexical environment of it's parent.

---- Example ----

So, when the GEC is created then, the a() is executed.
    then EC A is created then the c() is executed.
        then EC C is created, 
            this EC C will have a local memory component and the lexical memory of A 
            That is why if we try to access the var b in the funtion c, we can because it has lexical memory as local memory of a. In simpler words along with the local memory for c, it will also have the local memory of a. 

---- Example ----

What is the term Lexical?
Lexical means in heirarchy or in a sequence. 
--> In the above example we can say the c funciton is lexically inside the a function
    function a is lexically inside the Global Scope

    --> C lexically points to A
    --> A lexically points to GLOBAL
    --> GLOBAL lexically points to NULL (because it has no parent)

At global level the reference to the lexical environment points to null

All these funtions a and c, can access the memory of their parents, i.e. GLOBAL and a respectively.

If a var b is to accessed inside the function c, c is inside the function a and a is in the global scope, in such scenario JS engine will look for the value of var b inside the function c -> then into the lexical memory of c, i.e. function a -> then into the lexical memory of a i.e. the global env.

If this value is not found in any of the memories, it will return an error : not defined
Else the value will be accessed inside the function c from wherever the var b is present, be it function a or global scope

The whole chain parents and lexical environments is known as SCOPE CHAIN.

If the JS Engine doesn't find the var in the local memory then it goes to the next level of the scope chain until it finds the var or the next level is NULL when the global scope is reached.

LEXICAL ENVIRONMENT ---->>>> LOCAL MEMORY + REFERENCE TO LEXICAL ENVIRONMENT OF THE PARENT

------------------- THE SCOPE CHAIN ----------------------




--------------- LET & CONST | TEMPORAL DEADZONE ----------------

"let & const declarations are hoisted"

console.log(b);

console.log(a);

let a = 10;
var b = 100;

// undefined
// ReferenceError: Cannot access 'a' before initialization

We can only access a when we assign some value to a



let a = 10;

console.log(a);

var b = 100;

// 10

a can be accessed now


Now, how to know if a variable was hoisted or not?
In case of var -> the var b is hoisted in Global Object 
but let a -> it is hoisted in Script

in case of let and const they are allocated memory and this is what is called hoisting, but there stored in a different memory space but not global. We can only access them when we initialize them with some value.


"Temporal deadzone is the time between when the let or const variable is hoisted and till when it is initialized some value"
When some value is assigned to the let/const variable then the temporal deadzone ends


In case of let/const --> ReferenceError: Cannot access 'a' before initialization
This means that a is in a temporal deadzone until it is initialized

a is stored in the reserved space for let and const, not present in the global object

let is stricter than var, doesn't allow redeclaration of the variables

var b = 10;
console.log("B:",b);
var b = 100;
console.log("B:",b);

// 10 
// 100

variable b can easily be redeclared using the keyword var

let a = 10;
console.log("A:",a);
let a = 100;
console.log("A:",a);

// SyntaxError: Identifier 'a' has already been declared

let doesn't allow redeclaration like we have in var

"Same name in the same scope cannot be used using let"


"const is even stricter than let"

--- CONST ---

const b = 100
console.log(b);

// 100

let a;
a = 10
console.log(a);

// 10

Declaring the variable a with let keyword is allowed and then it can be later Initialized to access it, but in case of const it gives syntax error

const a;
//SyntaxError: Missing initializer in const declaration

const must always have an intialized value, with the declaration
const a = 10;
works fine

When we try to reassign a certain value to a const variable 

const a = 100;
console.log(a);

a = 1;
// TypeError: Assignment to constant variable. 

It gives a type error, but not the syntax error

--------------- LET & CONST | TEMPORAL DEADZONE ----------------


------------ SYNTAX ERROR vs TYPE ERROR vs REFERENCE ERROR --------------

const  b = 10;
b = 100;

Type error: When we try to assign a value to the variable of type const. (Const is supposed to be declared and initialized at the same time)

const  b;

Syntax Error: Because here we have declared the variable b of type const and not initialized it, here the initilization syntax is missing. The syntax expects if there is a const keyword, there would be something like const b = 100

let a = 10;
let a = 100;

Same sort of syntax error occurs when we try to redeclare a variable of type let. \
Identifier 'a' has already been declared


console.log(a);
let a = 100;

Reference Error: When JS Engine tries to find a variable in the memory and it cannot access it. Because at this point of time a is in temporal dead zone. Cannot access untill initialized

console.log(x)
not defined

------------ SYNTAX ERROR vs TYPE ERROR vs REFERENCE ERROR --------------


How to avoid temporal deadzone?
--> Put all the declareations and initilizations on the top of the scope
This way we are shrinking the temporal deadzone window to 0. As soon as code starts executing, it will find all the declarations and initializations there, avoiding any unneccessary errors 