----------------------------- ARRAYS in TS --------------------------------


const superHeros: string[] = []  // syntax
const powers: Array<number> = [] 

superHeros.push("Spiderman");
powers.push(89);

type Heros = {
    name: string,
    power: number
}

const allHeros: Heros[] = [];

let hero1: Heros = {
    name : "Batman",
    power : 84
}

allHeros.push(hero1);
// allHeros.push({});

console.log(powers)
console.log(allHeros)


// 2D matrix

const image: number[][] = [
    [255,255,255],
    []
]

console.log(image)


We can also define read only type of Arrays

Array<type> another way of declaring/initializing arrays


----------------------------- ARRAYS in TS --------------------------------


------------------------ Union in TS --------------------------

Union Types
TypeScript’s type system allows you to build new types out of existing ones using a large variety of operators. Now that we know how to write a few types, it’s time to start combining them in interesting ways.

Defining a Union Type
The first way to combine types you might see is a union type. A union type is a type formed from two or more other types, representing values that may be any one of those types. We refer to each of these types as the union’s members.


Working with Union Types
It’s easy to provide a value matching a union type - simply provide a type matching any of the union’s members. If you have a value of a union type, how do you work with it?

TypeScript will only allow an operation if it is valid for every member of the union. For example, if you have the union string | number, you can’t use methods that are only available on string:

function printId(id: number | string) {
  console.log(id.toUpperCase());
Property 'toUpperCase' does not exist on type 'string | number'.
  Property 'toUpperCase' does not exist on type 'number'.
}
Try
The solution is to narrow the union with code, the same as you would in JavaScript without type annotations. Narrowing occurs when TypeScript can deduce a more specific type for a value based on the structure of the code.

For example, TypeScript knows that only a string value will have a typeof value "string":

function printId(id: number | string) {
  if (typeof id === "string") {
    // In this branch, id is of type 'string'
    console.log(id.toUpperCase());
  } else {
    // Here, id is of type 'number'
    console.log(id);
  }
}


Another example is to use a function like Array.isArray:

function welcomePeople(x: string[] | string) {
  if (Array.isArray(x)) {
    // Here: 'x' is 'string[]'
    console.log("Hello, " + x.join(" and "));
  } else {
    // Here: 'x' is 'string'
    console.log("Welcome lone traveler " + x);
  }
}


// Arrays with union

const data: number[] = [1,2,3];
const data1: string[] = ["1","2","3"];

const data2: string[] | number[] = [1,2,3]; // this means array can either have only number or only  string
// const data3: string[] | number[] = [1,2,"3"]; // gives error

const data3: (string | number)[] = [1,2,"3"]; // this way we can have an array of strings and numbers


------------------------ Union in TS --------------------------


------------------------ tuples in TS -------------------------

A tuple type is another sort of Array type that knows exactly how many elements it contains, and exactly which types it contains at specific positions.

let user: [string, number, boolean];
user = ["Yash", 22, true]
// user = [22, "Yash", true] // error oder of data is important

// example - rgb
let rgb: [number, number, number] = [233,123,211];


type StringNumberBooleans = [string, number, ...boolean[]];
type StringBooleansNumber = [string, ...boolean[], number];
type BooleansStringNumber = [...boolean[], string, number];

// StringNumberBooleans describes a tuple whose first two elements are string and number respectively, but which may have any number of booleans following.
// StringBooleansNumber describes a tuple whose first element is string and then any number of booleans and ending with a number.
// BooleansStringNumber describes a tuple whose starting elements are any number of booleans and ending with a string then a number.
// A tuple with a rest element has no set “length” - it only has a set of well-known elements in different positions.

const a: StringNumberBooleans = ["hello", 1];
const b: StringNumberBooleans = ["beautiful", 2, true];
const c: StringNumberBooleans = ["world", 3, true, false, true, false, true];

------------------------ tuples in TS -------------------------