Arrow FUnctions vs Functions

1. Syntax
2. 'arguments' keyword
3. Hoisting
4. This keyword


Arrow function expressions should only be used for non-method functions because they do not have their own this. Let's see what happens when we try to use them as methods:

"use strict";

const obj = {
  i: 10,
  b: () => console.log(this.i, this),
  c() {
    console.log(this.i, this);
  },
};

obj.b(); // logs undefined, Window { /* … */ } (or the global object)
obj.c(); // logs 10, Object { /* … */ }


Here in case of arrow functions this is refering to window object in general functions this points to caller -> obj,
while in case of arrow functions are global and this keyword refers to window object


--------------- ARRAYS ---------------


Relationship between length and numerical properties:
    A JavaScript array's length property and numerical properties are connected.

    Several of the built-in array methods (e.g., join(), slice(), indexOf(), etc.) take into account the value of an array's length property when they're called.

    Other methods (e.g., push(), splice(), etc.) also result in updates to an array's length property.

Arrays are hetrogenous in JS
const arr = [1,true,"Hello"];

const fruits = [];
// Push values in array
fruits.push("banana", "apple", "peach");
console.log(fruits.length); // 3

When setting a property on a JavaScript array when the property is a valid array index and that index is outside the current bounds of the array, the engine will update the array's length property accordingly:

fruits[5] = "mango";
console.log(fruits[5]); // 'mango'
console.log(Object.keys(fruits)); // ['0', '1', '2', '5']
console.log(fruits.length); // 6

Increasing the length extends the array by adding empty slots without creating any new elements — not even undefined.

fruits.length = 10;
console.log(fruits); // ['banana', 'apple', 'peach', empty x 2, 'mango', empty x 4]
console.log(Object.keys(fruits)); // ['0', '1', '2', '5']
console.log(fruits.length); // 10
console.log(fruits[8]); // undefined

Decreasing the length property does, however, delete elements.

fruits.length = 2;
console.log(Object.keys(fruits)); // ['0', '1']
console.log(fruits.length); // 2



Array methods and empty slots

Array methods have different behaviors when encountering empty slots in sparse arrays. In general, older methods (e.g. forEach) treat empty slots differently from indices that contain undefined.

Methods that have special treatment for empty slots include the following: concat(), copyWithin(), every(), filter(), flat(), flatMap(), forEach(), indexOf(), lastIndexOf(), map(), reduce(), reduceRight(), reverse(), slice(), some(), sort(), and splice(). Iteration methods such as forEach don't visit empty slots at all. Other methods, such as concat, copyWithin, etc., preserve empty slots when doing the copying, so in the end the array is still sparse.


const colors = ["red", "yellow", "blue"];
colors[5] = "purple";
colors.forEach((item, index) => {
  console.log(`${index}: ${item}`);
});
// Output:
// 0: red
// 1: yellow
// 2: blue
// 5: purple

colors.reverse(); // ['purple', empty × 2, 'blue', 'yellow', 'red']

Copying methods and mutating methods
Some methods do not mutate the existing array that the method was called on, but instead return a new array. They do so by first constructing a new array and then populating it with elements. The copy always happens shallowly — the method never copies anything beyond the initially created array. Elements of the original array(s) are copied into the new array as follows:

  Objects: the object reference is copied into the new array. Both the original and new array refer to the same object. That is, if a referenced object is modified, the changes are visible to both the new and original arrays.
  
  Primitive types such as strings, numbers and booleans (not String, Number, and Boolean objects): their values are copied into the new array.

  The following methods create new arrays by accessing this.constructor[Symbol.species] to determine the constructor to use: concat(), filter(), flat(), flatMap(), map(), slice(), and splice() (to construct the array of removed elements that's returned).

The following methods always create new arrays with the Array base constructor: toReversed(), toSorted(), toSpliced(), and with().

Mutating method	    Non-mutating alternative
copyWithin()	      No one-method alternative
fill()	            No one-method alternative
pop()	              slice(0, -1)
push(v1, v2)	      concat([v1, v2])
reverse()	          toReversed()
shift()           	slice(1)
sort()	            toSorted()
splice()	          toSpliced()
unshift(v1, v2)	    toSpliced(0, 0, v1, v2)

An easy way to change a mutating method into a non-mutating alternative is to use the spread syntax or slice() to create a copy first:

arr.copyWithin(0, 1, 2); // mutates arr
const arr2 = arr.slice().copyWithin(0, 1, 2); // does not mutate arr
const arr3 = [...arr].copyWithin(0, 1, 2); // does not mutate arr


// forEach in JS

const print = (n) =>{
    console.log(n);
}

fruits.forEach(print);
// banana
// apple

--------------- ARRAYS ---------------