----------------- JS Engine -----------------



JS Engine + (Web) APIS + Callback queue + Microtask queue

Browser can execute the JS code because it has JS Runtime environment
Node JS also has JS runtime environment

JS Engine is the heart of JS Environment 
All the browsers have their own JS Engine

"ECMA Script" -> Governing body of JS Language

First JS Engine --> Spider Monkey

--------- JS Engine Architecture --------

JS Engine is not a machine, but a piece of code
    
    Code -> Parsing -> Compilation -> Execution

    1. Parsing --> 
            - Code is broken down into tokens
            - Syntax Parser --> Take the code and convert it into AST (Abstract Syntax Tree)

            This AST which is generated is then pased into Compilation stage
    
    

    Interpreter vs Compiler
    
        Interpreter --> In case of interpreted languages, they use an interpreter which executes the code line by line and doesn't know what happens in the next line. (Python)

        Fastly executed

        Compiler -----> In case of compiler whole code is compiled before execution and the source code is converted into machine code. (C++)

        More Efficiency
    
    JS can behave as both Interpreted and compiled language, it depends on the JS engine.

    Most of the modern browsers use both Interpreter and compiler to execute the code.

    2. Compilation -->
            - JS has JIT Compilation (Just In Time Compilation)
            - AST goes to interpreter
            - Interpreter converts high level code to byte code and the code moves to execution
            - While it is being interpreted, compiler optimizes the code line by line (happens in multiple phases), the job of the compiler over here is to optimize the code in the runtime, that is why it is said Just In Time compilation.
            - In some JS Engine there is Ahead of Time Compilation (AOT), in this case compiler takes a piece of code which is going to be executed later and tries to optimize it as much as it can, it also produces byte code, which is sent to execution phase

            - optimizations that compiler does for the code
                a. Inlining
                b. Copy  Elision
                c. Inline Caching
                
    3. Execution -->
            - Major components:
                Memory Heap - where all the memory is stored (Constantly in sync with call stack, garbage collector etc). All the variables and functions are assigned memory here
                Call Stack
            
            Garbage Collector uses "Mark and Sweep Algorithm"  (Important)


----------------- JS Engine -----------------



-------------------- ISSUES WITH setTimeout() -----------------------


setTimeout(function cb(){
    console.log("Callback");
}, 5000)

The above function doesn't always guarentee that the call back function cb will be executed after 5 seconds only. Sometimes it may take more than that also, this depends on the callback queue -> event loop and call stack.

Until the GEC is moved out of the call stack, the call back function inside the calll back queue cannot be pushed into the stack for execution. This is known as concurrency model in JS.

Once GEC moves out of call stack, event loop pushes the cb function from the call back queue to the call stack.

We should never block the main thread

Forcefully blocking the main thread to see the delay in setTimeout

console.log("Start");

setTimeout(function cb(){
    console.log("5 Seconds Completed");
}, 5000);

console.log("End");

let startDate = new Date().getTime();
let endDate = startDate;

while(endDate < startDate + 10000){
    endDate = new Date().getTime();
}

console.log("While Expired")

// Start
// End
// While Expired
// 5 Seconds Completed

Start and End gets logged as usual then,
The while loop is in the call stack for 10 seconds, then while expired is logged.
And then when the GEC is popped off the call stack, then the call back function is executed.

Hence, we cannot trust setTimeout that will definitely run the function exactly after 5 seconds, but we can trust that it will not run the function atleast for 5 seconds


-------------------- ISSUES WITH setTimeout() -----------------------